Add architecture shallow dive to developer docs (#3295)
alphagov/govuk-developer-docs: source/manual/architecture-shallow-dive.html.md

- publishes content to GOV.UK

## A user visits a page on GOV.UK

This content goes through 3 scenarios where a user:

- visits the GOV.UK homepage
- visits a GOV.UK webpage
- searches GOV.UK using the search page

### A user visits the GOV.UK homepage

The user visits `https://www.gov.uk` or `https://gov.uk` to get to the GOV.UK homepage.

The user's browser uses [Domain Name System (DNS)](/manual/dns.html) to look up which IP address is associated with the GOV.UK domain. For the GOV.UK domain, the IP address is for [Fastly](https://www.fastly.com/).

GOV.UK uses the Fastly content delivery network (CDN) to handle most requests to GOV.UK. Fastly has servers all over the world, meaning that it is physically closer to our users who then have a faster GOV.UK experience as a result.

Using Fastly reduces the load on GOV.UK Origin by around 70%. Origin is a stack of computers in the AWS cloud with a load balancer entry point. Origin routes requests to the machine running the application that can respond to those requests.

If Fastly has the homepage cached, Fastly returns the homepage to the user.

If Fastly does not have the homepage cached, Fastly sends the request on to Origin.

> Within Origin, the request goes to an application called Router to determine which GOV.UK application will produce the page.

Author: I've added links to the first instance of Router in each section

> Router then forwards the request to an application called Frontend.

Author: agree

Frontend produces the homepage as an HTML response and sends that response back to Router.

Router sends the response to Fastly, which caches the response for 30 minutes. This means that Fastly can handle any subsequent requests for the homepage during this time, without needing to query Origin at all.

Finally, Fastly sends the response back to the user.

### A user visits a GOV.UK webpage

The user searches for a GOV.UK webpage, and selects the webpage link in the search results. For example, this [news page about changes to travel between Nigeria and England](https://www.gov.uk/government/news/uk-changes-travel-rules-for-travellers-from-nigeria-to-england).

The user's browser sends the request to the [Fastly](https://www.fastly.com/) content delivery network (CDN).

If Fastly has the homepage cached, Fastly returns the homepage to the user.

If Fastly does not have the homepage cached, Fastly sends the request on to GOV.UK Origin.

Within Origin, the request goes to an application called Router to determine which GOV.UK application will produce the page.

> Router gets the request and decides which application should render the page. Router then forwards the request to the Frontend application.

Author: agree

The user's browser uses DNS to figure out where to send the request, and sends that request to Fastly.

If Fastly has the search results page cached, Fastly returns that page to the user.

If Fastly does not have the search results page cached, Fastly sends the request on to Origin.

Within Origin, the request goes to an application called Router to determine which GOV.UK application will produce the page. Router sends the request to Finder Frontend.

The [Finder Frontend application](https://github.com/alphagov/finder-frontend) renders finder, search and search result pages for GOV.UK, so Router sends the request to Finder Frontend.

Finder Frontend [queries the content store](https://www.gov.uk/api/content/search/all) for parts of the page content, such as the page title. Finder Frontend queries the Search API for the search results themselves. Search API provides a [JSON response with the search results](https://www.gov.uk/api/search.json?q=tax&count=2).

Finder Frontend then renders the response in a search results page, and sends that response to Router. Router sends the response to Fastly, which then sends the response to the user.

> ## A user publishes content on GOV.UK

Author: agree

GOV.UK has the following applications to publish content:

- Mainstream Publisher
- Whitehall
- Content Publisher
- Specialist Publisher
- Travel Advice Publisher
- Collections Publisher

The following sections describe what happens when a user publishes content to live and to draft using Mainstream Publisher (referred to as "Publisher").

### A user publishes content to live

> A user signs into their Signon account. The user creates or changes content in Publisher and [saves that content in draft](#a-user-publishes-content-to-draft).

Reviewer: Could we link to Signon as well?

Author: agree

The user's browser uses [DNS](#dns) to figure out where to send the request, and sends that request to the Fastly content delivery network (CDN).

If Fastly has the search results page cached, Fastly returns that page to the user.

If Fastly does not have the search results page cached, Fastly sends the request on to Origin. Origin is the infrastructure that GOV.UK maintains, hosted in Amazon Web Services (AWS).

Within Origin, the request goes to an application called Router to determine which GOV.UK application will produce the page.

The Finder Frontend application serves search results pages, so Router sends the request to Finder Frontend.

[Finder Frontend](https://github.com/alphagov/finder-frontend) renders finder and search pages for GOV.UK.

Finder Frontend [queries the content store](https://www.gov.uk/api/content/search/all) for parts of the page content, such as the page title. Finder Frontend queries the Search API for the search results themselves. Search API provides a [JSON response with the search results](https://www.gov.uk/api/search.json?q=tax&count=2).

> Finder Frontend then renders the response in a search results page to the user.

Author: agree

### A user publishes content to live

A user signs into their Signon account. The user creates or changes content in Publisher and [saves that content in draft][#a-user-publishes-content-to-draft].

When the user is ready to publish the content, they press __Publish__ in Publisher, which sends a request to the Publishing API.

The [Publishing API](https://github.com/alphagov/publishing-api) publishes content to the Content Store. This API stores all versions of content, and performs validation checks whenever the API receives a new version.

Publishing API updates the Content Store directly, which in turn updates Router to say there is now content at a particular URL, and which frontend application will render that content.

Publishing API also puts the publishing event on a 'message queue', which a number of other applications listen to and use. For example:

- the Search API listens to this queue and updates its indexes when new content is published so that this content can be searched for by users
- the Email Alert Service listens to this queue so that it can send emails to users who have subscribed to that topic

### A user publishes content to draft

> So far, we've been talking about the user-facing live stack. Before publishing content to live, a user can preview their content in the draft stack.

Reviewer 2: Might be worth clarifying here that this means we actually have two origins (I appreciate this probably wasn't in the docs you read beforehand!):

```suggestion
So far, we've been talking about the user-facing live stack ("Origin"). Before publishing content to live, a user can preview their content in the draft stack ("Draft origin").
```

---
owner_slack: "#govuk-developers"
title: Architectural summary of GOV.UK
section: Applications
type: learn
layout: manual_layout
parent: "/manual.html"
---

The following content is a summary of the architecture of GOV.UK.

This content is a less detailed version of the [Architectural deep-dive of GOV.UK](/manual/architecture-deep-dive.html), and is for both developers and non-developers to refer to.

The content summarises the architecture by stating what happens when a user:

- visits a page on GOV.UK
- publishes content to GOV.UK

> As this is for both a developer and non-developer audience, the content contains [definitions](#definitions) at the end.
> 

Reviewer 2: Thanks for removing that section - we can now remove this line.

```suggestion
```

## A user visits a page on GOV.UK

This content will go through 3 scenarios where a user:

- visits the GOV.UK homepage
- visits a GOV.UK webpage
- searches GOV.UK using the search page

### A user visits the GOV.UK homepage

The user visits https://www.gov.uk or https://gov.uk to get to the GOV.UK hpmepage.

> The user's browser uses [DNS](#dns) to figure out where to send the request, and sends that request to the Fastly content delivery network (CDN).
> 
> [Fastly](https://www.fastly.com/) is a cloud computing services provider and content delivery network (CDN).

Reviewer 2: Now we no longer have a Definitions section, there's nowhere for this to link to. I can't find a GOV.UK resource that describes DNS, so we could link to a third-party site (e.g. [Cloudflare](https://www.cloudflare.com/en-gb/learning/dns/what-is-dns/)) or attempt to summarise DNS inline, e.g.:

```suggestion
The user's browser uses DNS (Domain Name System) to look up which IP address is associated with the domain. We've configured this to be the IP address for [Fastly](https://www.fastly.com/), which is the CDN (content delivery network) that GOV.UK uses. 
```

> GOV.UK uses the Fastly CDN to handle the majority of requests to GOV.UK. This reduces the load on GOV.UK Origin by around 70%.

Reviewer 2: I'd move the line from a couple of paragraphs down, into this one:

```suggestion
GOV.UK uses the Fastly CDN to handle the majority of requests to GOV.UK. This reduces the load on GOV.UK Origin by around 70%. Fastly also has servers all over the world, meaning that it is closer to our users, who have a faster GOV.UK experience as a result.
```

GOV.UK Origin is a stack of computers in the AWS cloud, and its entry point is a load balancer. Origin routes requests to the machine running the application that can respond to the request.

> 
> Fastly also provides edge nodes or servers that are closer to our users, particularly those outside the UK.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

If Fastly has the homepage cached, Fastly returns the homepage to the user.

If Fastly does not have the homepage cached, Fastly sends the request on to Origin. Origin is the infrastructure that GOV.UK maintains, hosted in Amazon Web Services (AWS).

Within Origin, the request goes to an application called Router to determine which GOV.UK application will produce the page.

The request from Router is then proxied (or forwarded) to an application called Frontend.

> [Frontend](https://github.com/alphagov/frontend) is a public-facing app that serves the majority of documents on the /government part of GOV.UK. These government pages are fetched from the Content Store by the appropriate application. Frontend is a replacement for the public-facing parts of the Whitehall application.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure if all of the above is true, but it feels like unnecessary detail in any case. I'd simplify to:

```suggestion
[Frontend](https://github.com/alphagov/frontend) is one of several public-facing apps used to render pages on GOV.UK. The homepage is just one of the pages that Frontend is responsible for; its content is hard-coded in the application.
```

Note I've also removed reference to Whitehall's frontend here, as we'd rather pretend it doesn't exist! I've also removed reference to the Content Store as it's not really applicable here.

Reviewer 2: This comment still stands.

Author: whoops

Frontend produces the homepage as an HTML response and sends that response back to Router.

Router sends the response to Fastly, which caches the response for 30 minutes. This means that Fastly can handle any subsequent requests for the homepage during this time, without needing to query Origin at all.

Finally, Fastly sends the response back to the user.

### A user visits a GOV.UK webpage

The user searches for a GOV.UK webpage, and selects the webpage link in the search results. For example, this [news page about changes to travel between Nigeria and England](https://www.gov.uk/government/news/uk-changes-travel-rules-for-travellers-from-nigeria-to-england).

> The user's browser uses [DNS](#dns) to figure out where to send the request, and sends that request to the Fastly content delivery network (CDN).

Reviewer 2: A spanner in the works: subsequent requests to GOV.UK (such as this one for the news article) won't go through the whole DNS lookup again. It's already completed that rather time-expensive query, and doesn't need to do so again for several hours. The browser will just cache the IP address from the first time, and use that for all subsequent requests to GOV.UK.

In hindsight, I think it may be best to just omit the DNS info altogether. It's a tech thing that applies to any website (not just GOV.UK) and - as we can see here! - it can get a bit complicated.

I think I'd simplify to something along the lines of "The user's browser sends the request to the Fastly content delivery network (CDN)."

If Fastly has the homepage cached, Fastly returns the homepage to the user.

If Fastly does not have the homepage cached, Fastly sends the request on to Origin. Origin is the infrastructure that GOV.UK maintains, hosted in Amazon Web Services (AWS).

Within Origin, the request goes to an application called Router to determine which GOV.UK application will produce the page.

Router gets the request and decides which application should render the page. Router then proxies (forwards) the request to the Frontend application.

Frontend looks at the request and decides which content to get from the Content Store. The [Content Store](https://github.com/alphagov/content-store) is:

- an application that exposes the [Content Store API](https://github.com/alphagov/content-store/blob/main/docs/content-store-api.md)

> - a MongoDB database of almost all the content published on GOV.UK, excluding dynamic elements such as top links on taxon pages, navigation elements, or search result pages

Reviewer 2: I'd flip these around, along the lines of:

- a MongoDB database of almost all content published on GOV.UK...
- ...and an application that exposes this content via the Content Store API

Frontend then queries the Content Store API to get the content in an [API response from the Content Store](https://www.gov.uk/api/content/government/news/uk-changes-travel-rules-for-travellers-from-nigeria-to-england).

Frontend then builds the page using the content in the API response, and sends that response back to Router.

Router sends the response to Fastly. Fastly sends the response back to the user.

### A user searches GOV.UK using the search page

> The user goes to the [GOV.UK search page](https://www.gov.uk/search), and [searches for something, for example, "covid"](https://www.gov.uk/search/all?keywords=covid&order=relevance).

Reviewer 2: Nitpick: I didn't consider this at the time, but we might want to pick a less sensitive / more timeless example, such as "tax". We'd just need to remember to update the URL above and the search.json URL later on.

The user's browser uses [DNS](#dns) to figure out where to send the request, and sends that request to the Fastly content delivery network (CDN).

If Fastly has the search results page cached, Fastly returns that page to the user.

If Fastly does not have the search results page cached, Fastly sends the request on to Origin. Origin is the infrastructure that GOV.UK maintains, hosted in Amazon Web Services (AWS).

Within Origin, the request goes to an application called Router to determine which GOV.UK application will produce the page.

The Finder Frontend application serves search results pages, so Router sends the request to Finder Frontend.

[Finder Frontend](https://github.com/alphagov/finder-frontend) renders finder and search pages for GOV.UK:

- site search is available from the header of every page

> - finder pages provide facetted searching over a collection of documents

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure we need to go into much detail about what Finder Frontend does. It's just one of many frontend apps, and we've picked the example somewhat arbitrarily. I'd be tempted to delete these lines.

Finder Frontend [queries the content store](https://www.gov.uk/api/content/search/all) for parts of the page content, such as the page title. Finder Frontend queries the Search API for the search results themselves. Search API provides a [JSON response with the search results](https://www.gov.uk/api/search.json?q=covid&count=2).

> [Search API](https://github.com/alphagov/search-api) indexes content into Elasticsearch and serves the GOV.UK Search API. GOV.UK applications use the API to search and filter GOV.UK content. For example, Finder Frontend uses the search API to render site search and finder pages. Search API also provides a public API at https://www.gov.uk/api/search.json?q=taxes.

Reviewer 2: The last two sentences repeat what we've already established in the paragraphs above. As above, I'd be tempted to delete this paragraph.

Finder Frontend then renders the response in a search results page to the user.

## A publisher publishes content on GOV.UK

GOV.UK has the following applications to publish content:

- Mainstream Publisher
- Whitehall
- Content Publisher
- Specialist Publisher
- Travel Advice Publisher
- Collections Publisher

> The following content states what happens when a user publishes content to live and to draft using Mainstream Publisher (referred to as "Publisher").

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following sections describe what happens when a user publishes content to live and to draft using Mainstream Publisher (referred to as "Publisher").
```

### A user publishes content to live

> A user signs into their Signon account. The user creates or changes content in Publisher and [saves that content in draft][#a-user-publishes-content-to-draft].

Reviewer 2: Nice interlinking 👍

When the user is ready to publish the content, they press __Publish__ in Publisher, which sends a request to the Publishing API.

The [Publishing API](https://github.com/alphagov/publishing-api) publishes content to the Content Store. This API stores all versions of content, and performs validation checks whenever the API receives a new version.

Publishing API updates the Content Store directly, which in turn updates Router to say there is now content at a particular URL, and which frontend application will render that content.

Publishing API also puts the publishing event on a 'message queue', which a number of other applications listen to and use. For example:

- the Search API listens to this queue and updates its indexes when new content is published so that this content can be searched for by users
- the Email Alert Service listens to this queue so that it can send emails to users who have subscribed to that topic

### A user publishes content to draft

So far, we've been talking about the user-facing live stack. Before publishing content to live, a user can preview their content in the draft stack.

> The draft stack is guarded by the [Authenticating Proxy](#authenticating-proxy). The [Authenticating Proxy](https://github.com/alphagov/authenticating-proxy) adds authentication to the draft stack. This means that only users with a Signon account, or a valid secret JSON web token (JWT) if the user is a fact checker, can access draft.

Reviewer 2: We no longer have the Definitions section:

```suggestion
The draft stack is guarded by the [Authenticating Proxy](https://github.com/alphagov/authenticating-proxy). The Authenticating Proxy adds authentication to the draft stack. This means that only users with a Signon account, or a valid secret JSON web token (JWT) if the user is a fact checker, can access draft.
```

---
owner_slack: "#govuk-developers"
title: Architectural summary of GOV.UK
section: Applications
type: learn
layout: manual_layout
parent: "/manual.html"
---

The following content is a summary of the architecture of GOV.UK.

This content is a less detailed version of the [Architectural deep-dive of GOV.UK](/architecture-deep-dive.html), and is for both developers and non-developers to refer to.

The content summarises the architecture by stating what happens when a user:

- visits a page on GOV.UK
- publishes content to GOV.UK

As this is for both a developer and non-developer audience, the content contains definitions at the end.

## A user visits a page on GOV.UK

This content will go through 3 scenarios where a user:

- visits the GOV.UK homepage
- visits a GOV.UK webpage
- searches GOV.UK using the search page

These 3 scenarios are separated because:

- the GOV.UK homepage is hardcoded in the Government Frontend application
- most GOV.UK webpages are produced by publishing applications

> - the search terms and content are dynamic and might change

Author: ok

### A user visits the GOV.UK homepage

> The user searches for the GOV.UK homepage, and selects the homepage link in the search results.

Author: agreed

> The user's web browser checks if it has a locally cached version of the homepage by sending a request to the Fastly content delivery network (CDN). A locally cached version is more likely if the user has visited the homepage in the last 30 mins.

Author: ok, agreed

If Fastly has the homepage cached, Fastly returns the homepage to the user.

If Fastly does not have the homepage cached, Fastly sends the request on to Origin. Origin is the infrastructure that GOV.UK maintains, hosted in Amazon Web Services (AWS).

Within Origin, the request goes to an application called Router to determine which GOV.UK application will produce the page.

> The request from Router is then proxied (or forwarded) to an application called Government Frontend which produces the homepage as an HTML response and sends that response back to Router. Router sends the response to Fastly. Fastly sends the response back to the user.

Author: How come it's called Government Frontend in its repo? https://github.com/alphagov/government-frontend

> The request from Router is then proxied (or forwarded) to an application called Government Frontend which produces the homepage as an HTML response and sends that response back to Router. Router sends the response to Fastly. Fastly sends the response back to the user.

Reviewer 2: The repo for Frontend is here: https://github.com/alphagov/frontend

(Very confusing that we have two similarly named repos!)

### A user visits a GOV.UK webpage

> The user searches for a GOV.UK webpage, and selects the webpage link in the search results. For example, this [news page about UK changes to travel rules for travellers from Nigeria to England](https://www.gov.uk/government/news/uk-changes-travel-rules-for-travellers-from-nigeria-to-england).

Author: Fair enough, but I'll keep some description in as we always need to make links descriptive for accessibility.

The user's web browser checks if it has a locally cached version of the webpage by sending a request to the Fastly content delivery network (CDN). A locally cached version is more likely if the user has visited the webpage in the last 30 mins.

If Fastly has the webpage cached, Fastly returns the webpage to the user.

If Fastly does not have the webpage cached, Fastly sends the request on to Origin. Origin is the infrastructure that GOV.UK maintains, hosted in Amazon Web Services (AWS).

Within Origin, the request goes to an application called Router to determine which GOV.UK application will render the page.

> Router gets the request and decides which application should render the page. Router then proxies (forwards) the request to the Government Frontend application.

Author: I'd recommend keeping the detail in both sections - content best practice is to make sure that different sections have the relevant information as they may not be read in sequence by a user.

> Government Frontend looks at request and decides which content to get from the Content Store. Government Frontend then queries the Content Store API to get the content in an [API response from the Content Store](https://www.gov.uk/api/content/government/news/uk-changes-travel-rules-for-travellers-from-nigeria-to-england).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Government Frontend looks at the request and decides which content to get from the Content Store. Government Frontend then queries the Content Store API to get the content in an [API response from the Content Store](https://www.gov.uk/api/content/government/news/uk-changes-travel-rules-for-travellers-from-nigeria-to-england).
```

Government Frontend then builds the page using the content in the API response, and sends that response back to Router.

Router sends the response to Fastly. Fastly sends the response back to the user.

### A user searches GOV.UK using the search page

> The user goes to the GOV.UK search page, and searches for something.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The user goes to the [GOV.UK search page](https://www.gov.uk/search), and [searches for something](https://www.gov.uk/search/all?keywords=covid&order=relevance).
```

> The user's web browser checks if it has a locally cached version of the search results by sending a request to the Fastly content delivery network (CDN). A locally cached version is more likely if the user has made the same search in the last 5 mins.
> 
> If Fastly has the search results page cached, Fastly returns the results page to the user.
> 
> If Fastly does not have the search results page cached, Fastly sends the request on to Origin. Origin is the infrastructure that GOV.UK maintains, hosted in Amazon Web Services (AWS).
> 
> Within Origin, the request goes to an application called Router. The Finder Frontend application serves search results pages, so Router sends the request to Finder Frontend.

Reviewer 2: Again, I think we can avoid repeating ourselves - and also the distinction between a 30m cache and a 5m cache is too low-level detail for an introduction to architecture doc.

```suggestion
As above, the request goes through Fastly, to Origin, to the Router application. This time, Router knows that the route should be handled by the Finder Frontend application.
```

Author: As per previously stated reasons, would prefer to keep detail in this section in case read out of sequence.

> Finder Frontend queries the Search API. Search API provides a [JSON response with the search results](https://www.gov.uk/api/search.json?q=covid&count=2). Finder Frontend then renders the response in a search results page to the user.

Reviewer 2: Think it's probably worth highlighting the distinction between the search API and the content store.

```suggestion
Finder Frontend [queries the content store](https://www.gov.uk/api/content/search/all) for parts of the page content, such as the page title, but for the search results themselves, Finder Frontend queries the Search API. Search API provides a [JSON response with the search results](https://www.gov.uk/api/search.json?q=covid&count=2). Finder Frontend then renders the response in a search results page to the user.
```

## A publisher publishes content on GOV.UK

GOV.UK has the following applications to publish content:

- Mainstream Publisher
- Whitehall
- Content Publisher
- Specialist Publisher
- Travel Advice Publisher
- Collections Publisher

> The following content states what happens when a user publishes content to live and to draft using Mainstream Publisher ("Publisher").

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following content states what happens when a user publishes content to live and to draft using Mainstream Publisher (often referred to as just "Publisher").
```

### A user publishes content to live

> A user signs into their Signon account. The user creates or changes content in Publisher and saves that content in draft.
> 
> Publisher makes a request to Publishing API to create or update the appropriate draft content.

Reviewer 2: I think we should avoid going into any detail around the draft stack until the next section.

```suggestion
A user signs into their Signon account. The user creates or changes content in Publisher and saves that content in draft - more on that in the section below.
```

> When the user is ready to publish the content, they press __Publish__ in the Publisher which sends a request to Publishing API.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When the user is ready to publish the content, they press __Publish__ in Publisher, which sends a request to Publishing API.
```

> The Publishing API then updates the Content Store with the new or updated content.
> 
> Content Store updates Router to say there is now content at a particular URL and says which frontend application will render that content.
> 
> The Publishing API tells the Search API that the content is live.

Reviewer 2: The 'message queue' is quite important, so I've filled out that section a bit:

```suggestion
Publishing API updates the Content Store directly, which in turn updates Router to say there is now content at a particular URL, and which frontend application will render that content.

Publishing API also puts the publishing event on a 'message queue', which a number of other applications rely on. For example, Search API listens to this queue, updating its indexes when new content is published, so that it can be searched for by users. The Email Alert Service also listens to this queue, so that it can send emails to users who have subscribed to that topic.
```

> 
> Search API updates its indexes so the content can be searched for by users.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

### A user publishes content to draft

> A user signs into their Signon account. The user creates or changes content in Publisher and saves that content in draft.
> 
> Publisher makes a request to Publishing API to create or update the appropriate draft content.
> 
> Before publishing content to live, a user can preview this draft content. To enable this, the following applications have both draft and live data and environments:
> 
> - Router
> - Content Store
> - Government Frontend
> 
> The Publishing API updates the draft Content Store when a user updates content, and then updates the live Content Store when the user then publishes the content.
> 
> Access to the draft environment is restricted. The Authenticating Proxy sits in front of the draft Router, and checks whether a user should have access. The Proxy does this either through Signon credentials, or through a secret token if it is for fact checkers.

Reviewer 2: It's difficult to introduce the draft stack without over-burdening the reader with too much complexity at once. The section above does a good job with that, but I don't think it makes it clear enough what lives on the draft stack and what lives on the live stack.

I've had a go at structuring the section the way that makes most sense to me, taking some content from [the draft/live section of the deep-dive](https://docs.publishing.service.gov.uk/manual/architecture-deep-dive.html#draft-and-live-stacks). Let me know what you think:

```suggestion
So far, we've been talking about the __live stack__, which is user-facing. Before publishing content to live, a publisher can preview their content in __the draft stack__, which is guarded by [authenticating-proxy](#authenticating-proxy) so that only authenticated users can view the content. It does this either through Signon credentials, or through a secret token if it is for fact checkers.

The publishing apps, Publishing API and message queue all run exclusively in this draft stack. However, the draft stack also has its own copy of Router, Content Store, and all of the frontend apps. This enables publishers to see what their draft content will look like when rendered by the respective frontend application.

The only app that communicates with both the draft and live stacks is Publishing API. When a draft is saved in Publisher, Publishing API saves the content to the draft content store. When a draft is published in Publisher, Publishing API saves the content to the live content store, which 'publishes' the content and makes it visible to users.
```

I think my proposal highlights the important role that Publishing API has in this. What I'm not so keen on is the sudden realisation that the publishing apps we've been talking about to date, run in a separate stack, and sit behind authenticating-proxy/Signon, which we've only just started talking about here. I wonder if the draft stack stuff should move further up in the document? 🤔

Author: 👍

> ### The publishing message queue
> 
> When a user publishes content, the Publishing API tells the Search API that the content is live. The Publishing API does this by writing to the publishing message queue. The Search API is subscribed to this message queue and responds when the Publishing API writes to the queue. The following applications also subscribe to the publishing message queue.
> 
> #### Cache Clearing Service
> 
> When a user publishes new or updated content, the Cache Clearing Service tells Fastly to clear its cache for that page, meaning people can access the new content faster.
> 
> #### Email Alert Service
> 
> When a user publishes new or updated content, this application emails subscribers to tell them that new or updated content has been published.
> 
> #### Content Data API
> 
> When a user publishes new or updated content, this application updates its data on what pages are live on GOV.UK.

Reviewer 2: I didn't see this section when I made the message queue suggestion above. But I think the inline suggestion above is sufficient, rather than this having its own section. Content Data API is a strange part of the GOV.UK world; most developers won't ever go near it, and it is only minimally maintained. The Cache Clearing Service may be going away at some point, as there's talk of [reducing the cache times across GOV.UK](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-rfcs/pull/144) such that it wouldn't be needed anymore. Therefore a quick paragraph about it further up in the document should be sufficient.

```suggestion
```

> ## Definitions

Reviewer 2: A `Definitions` section is a nice idea, but given that most definitions are only a sentence or two, I wonder if we can avoid the need for this section by inlining a bit more of this content into the document?

Author: have given it a try, see what you think
